Hope python workshop ecosystem (#3042)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/guides/dbt-ecosystem/dbt-python-snowpark/13-testing.md

---
title: "Testing" 
id: "13-testing"
description: "Testing"
---
We have now completed building all the models for today’s lab, but how do we know if they meet our assertions? Put another way, how do we know the quality of our data models are any good? This brings us onto testing!

We test data models for mainly two reasons:

1. Ensure that our source data is clean on ingestion before we start data modeling/transformation (aka avoid garbage in, garbage out problem).
2. Make sure we don’t introduce bugs in the transformation code we wrote (stop ourselves from creating bad joins/fanouts).

> Testing in dbt comes in two flavors: [generic](/docs/building-a-dbt-project/tests#generic-tests) and [singular](/docs/building-a-dbt-project/tests#singular-tests).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing in dbt comes in two flavors: [generic](/docs/build/tests#generic-tests) and [singular](/docs/build/tests#singular-tests).
```
